revise home page messaging (#867)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: en/index.md

Reviewer: Something in the word "unique" makes me hesitate... Why dont we stay with secure? Secure decentralized messenger?

It is unique indeed, but the word unique is overused...

Author: the word "unique" is gone from the latest draft, maybe you looked at an old one?

---
title: Delta Chat, decentralized private messenger 
lang: en
---

# Delta Chat is a decentralized private messenger app

<br>

<span style="font-size: 1.5em">
    💬 Reliable instant messaging with
       multi-profile and multi-device support
   <br/><br/>

>    💨 No number, e-mail or data needed to use interoperable [chatmail servers](https://delta.chat/en/chatmail)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   💨 No phone number or e-mail needed to sign up on [chatmail servers](https://delta.chat/en/chatmail)
```

Let's make clear that it is about sign-up. And I think we can leave out "or data" here, people are used to lying with this anyway; email and phone number are the barriers.

And let's talk about interoperability below, in an "e-mail" point.

>    💨 No number, e-mail or data needed to use interoperable [chatmail servers](https://delta.chat/en/chatmail)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   💨 No phone number or e-mail needed to sign up on [chatmail servers](https://delta.chat/en/chatmail)
```

Let's make clear that it is about sign-up. And I think we can leave out "or data" here, people are used to lying with this anyway; email and phone number are the barriers.

And let's talk about interoperability below, in an "e-mail" point.

   <br/><br/>
   🥳 Interactive [web apps in chats](https://webxdc.org/) for gaming and collaboration
   <br/><br/>
   🔒 [Audited end-to-end encryption](https://delta.chat/en/2024-03-25-crypto-analysis-securejoin) safe against network & server attacks
   <br/><br/>

>    👉 [F](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)[OSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) software, built on [Internet Standards](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/blob/master/standards.md), avoiding [xkcd927](https://xkcd.com/927/) :)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   👉 [F](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)[OSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) software, built on e-mail interoperability, avoiding [xkcd 927](https://xkcd.com/927/) :)
```

This makes it more clear what exactly our strength is in this regard. I propose linking to https://staging.delta.chat/867/en/help#does-delta-chat-work-with-my-e-mail-provider or https://staging.delta.chat/867/en/help#why-do-i-have-to-enter-my-e-mail-password-into-delta-chat-is-this-secure, and explain there that you can use any e-mail account to chat.

Reviewer 3: i see the point, but i'd anyway tune down email here. for reasons @hpk42 pointed out above, eg. "Better not think first about using your existing e-mail account because that requires a lot of understanding and there are many known issues" is very strong."

i do not think, that this will confuse existing users - but even if: the whole change is about users we do not have currently, which are the far larger base, hopefully.

Reviewer 2: "Aim for new users, not for current users" is a valid point; but note that it is [not without problems](https://nothinghuman.substack.com/p/the-tyranny-of-the-marginal-user).

Our current userbase is also connected with future users; they will most likely keep recommending delta as "the email messenger" for a while. If email isn't even mentioned on the front page, people will wonder if they are at the right address.

hpk's most recent proposal is the best compromise between both concerns I think. As the second option in "or use traditional email servers", users don't *have to think* about their current accounts, but we show that they *can*.

I think we should provide an entry point for the whole span of considerations touching "wow, it runs on e-mail? that means I can use all the advantages of the e-mail network like wide interoperability, spam protection, sieve rules, BCC, aliases, and all of our members already have an account via SSO?"
Because Meera and Stefanie from https://github.com/deltachat/bg-deltachat/blob/master/ux-feedback/personas.md would think about this for longer, but if it isn't on the front page, they wouldn't dive into the FAQ I think.

---

> title: Delta Chat Homepage

Reviewer 2: That it is a homepage is obvious already. What about "Delta Chat, the e-mail messenger" ?

Author: changed it to match the new title. see below.

lang: en
---

> # Delta Chat is a standards-based private messenger 

Reviewer 2: Every time I explain Delta Chat to someone, I say "it's either a messaging app that works over e-mail, or an e-mail client that looks like a messenger, depending on the perspective". For this, you'd need to understand the role of "standards" in the IT world, and now we don't even say which standards. This is very abstract, I'm not a fan. Maybe if I'd participated in more of the discussions around this change.

Reviewer: Yeah I also mention the "based on email"

Author: now changed to "is a decentralized private messenger app"

<br>

<span style="font-size: 1.5em">
    💬 Reliable instant messaging with
       multi-profile and multi-device support
   <br/><br/>
   💨 No number, e-mail or data needed to use interoperable [chatmail servers](https://delta.chat/en/chatmail)
   <br/><br/>
   🥳 Interactive [web apps in chats](https://webxdc.org/) for gaming and collaboration
   <br/><br/>
   🔒 [Audited end-to-end encryption](https://delta.chat/en/2024-03-25-crypto-analysis-securejoin) safe against network & server attacks
   <br/><br/>

>    👉 [F](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)[OSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) software, built on [Internet Standards](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/blob/master/standards.md), avoiding [xkcd927](https://xkcd.com/927/) :)

Reviewer 2: Hm, this also addresses a very narrow target group; for our main page, maybe too narrow imho.

</span>

> # Available on mobiles and desktop

Reviewer 2: "on mobile phones" maybe?

Reviewer: And desktops? In plural

> # Available on mobiles and desktop

Reviewer 2: "on mobile phones" maybe?

Author: reverted to old "Available on mobile and desktop" -- i think "mobile" is a standing term but maybe plural is weird.

lang: en
---

# Delta Chat is a unique decentralized messenger 

<br>

<span style="font-size: 1.5em">
    💬 Reliable instant messaging with
       multi-profile and multi-device support
   <br/><br/>
   🥳 Interactive [web apps in chats](https://webxdc.org/) for gaming and collaboration
   <br/><br/>
   🔒 Audited end-to-end encryption safe against network & server attacks
   <br/><br/>

>    👉 [FO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)[SS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) software, built on [Internet Standards](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/blob/master/standards.md), avoiding [xkcd927](https://xkcd.com/927/) :)
> </span>

Reviewer 3: i think, the following linking pattern makes a little more sense F - for "Free" and "OSS" for 2Open Source Software"

```suggestion
   👉 [F](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Free_software)[OSS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open-source_software) software, built on [Internet Standards](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust/blob/master/standards.md), avoiding [xkcd927](https://xkcd.com/927/) :)
</span>
```
